Battle of Jingxing (#117)
TheShadowOfHassen/0-ad-history-encyclopedia-mod: unused/Battle_of_Jingxing.md

> The Battle of Jingxing was fought in 205 BC between forces of the Han kingdom and those of the Zhao. The Han numbered 30,000 and were commanded by Han Xin. The Zhao led by commander Chen Xu were, with their 200,000 men, not only numerically superior but also, since the Han army consisted entirely of peasant militia, more experienced. This was because Han Xin, the Han commander, had been obligated to send his best man to his warlord.

Reviewer: Whose warlord?

Reviewer: Does it say who the warlord was?

Author: Sorry, I apprarantly overlooked this comment. It is Liu Bang.

> The two armies faced each other in the Jingxing Pass, leading across the Taihang Mountains and into the Zhao kingdom. Because this narrow pass was perfectly suited for an ambush, Han Xin was very cautious about entering it and did so only after careful scouting. And the Zhao were indeed not planning an ambush; they held their higher manpower alone for a big enough advantage. Instead, they camped outside the pass, waiting for the Han.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The two armies faced each other in the Jingxing Pass, which lead across the Taihang Mountains and into the Zhao kingdom. Because this narrow pass was perfectly suited for an ambush, Han Xin was very cautious about entering it and did so only after careful scouting. And the Zhao were indeed not planning an ambush; they held their higher manpower alone for a big enough advantage. Instead, they camped outside the pass, waiting for the Han.
```

In the night before the confrontation, Han Xin ordered 2,000 light cavalry carrying many more flags than customary to hide in the mountains behind the Zhao camp.

> On the next day, Han Xin led his remaining army over the river that was crossing the pass, letting them build temporary fortifications. He then took 20,000 of his soldiers, advanced to the open plains, and attacked the Zhao. After some not being able to break through, Han Xin coordinated a slow retreat to the river where the fortifications had been built. The Zhao obviously pursued the Han, and upon arriving at the river, were met with the 10,000 fresh Han soldiers. Han Xin let his 20,000 rest and then rejoined the fight.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the next day, Han Xin led his remaining army over the river that was crossing the pass, letting them build temporary fortifications. He then took 20,000 of his soldiers, advanced to the open plains, and attacked the Zhao. They were not able to break through. After some time, Han Xin coordinated a slow retreat to the river, where the fortifications had been built. The Zhao obviously pursued the Han, and upon arriving at the river, were met with the 10,000 fresh Han soldiers. Han Xin let his 20,000 rest and then rejoined the fight.
```

> The Han were now in what seemed like a fatal position. They faced an overwhelmingly larger force and had their retreat cut off by the river. However, this was part of Han Xin's plan, as in his eyes, the biggest weakness of an inexperienced soldier was his cowardly thoughts of running away. Han Xin shouted something like, “There is no way back; you will only die if you don't fight bravely”. This gave the Han troops a huge morale boost, and together with their fortifications and the fact that they couldn't be flanked in the narrow pass, they were able to hold off the attacking Zhao.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Han were now in what seemed like a fatal position. They faced an overwhelming, large force and had their retreat cut off by the river. However, this was part of Han Xin's plan, as in his eyes, the biggest weakness of an inexperienced soldier was his cowardly thoughts of running away. Han Xin shouted something like, “There is no way back; you will only die if you don't fight bravely”. This gave the Han troops a huge morale boost, and together with their fortifications and the fact that they couldn't be flanked in the narrow pass, they were able to hold off the attacking Zhao.
```

> The Zhao had uncarefully drawn many reinforcements from their camp and left it very poorly guarded. Seeing the vulnerable camp, the 2,000 cavalry who hid in the mountains now struck, meeting little resistance. They took over the camp and raised their many Han flags.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Zhao had carelessly sent most of his soldiers ot atttack the Han by the river, leaving their camp poorly guarded. Seeing the vulnerable camp, the 2,000 cavalry who hid in the mountains now struck, meeting little resistance. They took over the camp and raised their many Han flags.
```

> The Zhao had carelessly sent most of his soldiers to atttack the Han by the river, leaving their camp poorly guarded. Seeing the vulnerable camp, the 2,000 cavalry who hid in the mountains now struck, meeting little resistance. They took over the camp and raised their many Han flags.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Zhao had carelessly sent most of his soldiers to attack the Han by the river, leaving their camp poorly guarded. Seeing the vulnerable camp, the 2,000 cavalry who hid in the mountains now struck, meeting little resistance. They took over the camp and raised their many Han flags.
```

> In the meantime, the Zhao's attacks on the Han remained unsuccessful, however, nothing was lost for them (yet). Their commander, Chen Yu, decided to return with his exhausted troops to the camp and continue fighting the next day. As they got closer to the camp, they realised it had been taken over by the Han and believed their king, who had been in the camp, to be captured or dead. And the many flags gave the appearance of a much greater number of soldiers occupying the camp than there actually were. Although still being multiple times more mem, the Zhao panicked. Seeing them disorganized, the Han charged from both sides, the river and the camp, on the Zhao, who were still stuck in the pass. The Zhao army got scattered and decisively defeated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the meantime, the Zhao's attacks on the Han remained unsuccessful, however, nothing was lost for them (yet). Their commander, Chen Yu, decided to return with his exhausted troops to the camp and continue fighting the next day. As they got closer to the camp, they realized it had been taken over by the Han and believed their king, who had been in the camp, to be captured or dead. And the many flags gave the appearance of a much greater number of soldiers occupying the camp than there actually were. Although still being multiple times more men, the Zhao panicked. Seeing them disorganized, the Han charged from both sides, the river and the camp, on the Zhao, who were still stuck in the pass. The Zhao army was defeated.
```
